---
layout: post
title: "Counting, Carbs, and Cavemen: Decoding the Diet Decision"
comments: true
---
The idea of dieting is as American as the apple pie that leads to it.  Some blame the obesity epidemic or the standards placed upon us by the media, but one thing is for sure, this over thirty billion dollar per year industry is here to stay.  With so many new diets on the market along the old standbys our mothers used, it can be difficult to decipher which diet fits best with you and your lifestyle.  Luckily, there are plenty of options. From counting calories and points to becoming a culinary caveman, any person can develop a meal plan and, in the long run, a healthy lifestyle.

For the second year in a row, <b>DASH Diet</b> tops the list of U.S. News diet ranking. DASH, or Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension, was developed in the interest of lowering blood pressure, but also aimed at improving overall health.  The diet is considered a flexible option because it does not require the elimination of any food groups.  Instead, the aim is a balanced diet with an emphasis on produce, whole grains, and low-fat dairy; foods we’ve been told are healthy throughout our lives.  Age and lifestyle determine the amount of calories that should be consumed in a day and the amount of servings is dependent upon that caloric goal.   As expected, sugar, alcohol, and red meat are limited.  Additionally, this diet does not provide support groups or an abundance of resources, so it also requires a lot of discipline.  Studies show that while the diet shows consistent overall health improvement, especially for those with hypertension, this is a much slower approach to weight loss than many other diets on the market today.  DASH sounds like a quick fix, but it is a very methodical lifestyle change.

If counting calories and servings sounds too complicated for a diet, perhaps counting points makes a diet more livable.  <b>Weight Watchers</b> is synonymous with points and has stood the test of time for over fifty years as one of America’s top weight loss plans.  Weight Watchers is based on a points system, in which every food has a points value and every member has a points budget.  Points are based on the fat, fiber, carbohydrates, and protein makeup of food.  All fruits and most vegetables have a points value of zero, nudging dieters to lean toward those foods.  Dieters keep a food journal, or a tracker, where points are logged and deducted from one’s target like balancing a checking account. Each person also has the option of using “Weekly Points,” extra points that act as a sort of overdraft protection, throughout one week, in case a wedding, birthday, or other splurge-worthy event occurs.  Extra points can also be earned through activity.  Weight Watchers encourages healthy eating habits, but does not forbid any foods, and does not necessarily require dieters to avoid processed products.  Though Weight Watchers originally required weekly weigh-ins and meetings for members, it has remained relevant in the twenty-first century with its online program, smartphone apps, and celebrity endorsements.  Members can expect to lose half a pound to two pounds on average per week and once they’ve reached their Goal Weight, can continue to use Weight Watchers services for free as Lifetime member, in order to maintain their health and weight loss.

While Weight Watchers prides itself on keeping up with the times, some prefer to revert to the eating habits of our ancestors.  One of the latest trends in dieting and weight loss is the <b>Paleo Diet</b>, a diet that simply states that if a caveman couldn’t eat it, neither should you.  There is no counting or label-reading required, and the only measuring of food is a measurement of one’s satisfaction state of hunger. Every human is now a hunter-gatherer, even if only doing so in a supermarket.  Meats, vegetables, seeds, and nuts are encouraged for higher protein, lower carbohydrate diet.  No grains, sugars, processed foods, and for most, no dairy.  Fruits and sweet potatoes calm that sweet tooth and those carb cravings and the ability to eat eggs without separating whites and yolks is can be liberating.  In addition to the many cookbooks and blogs now dedicated to caveman life, there are several Paleo apps and Paleo restaurants are even popping up in major cities.  Hunting and gathering has never been easier.

Whether your weight loss goal involves following advice from your doctor or following in the footsteps of Jessica Simpson or the Flintstones, there is a health plan for you.   Eating well can often feel taxing on the budget, but in the long run, you’ll be saving money on medical bills and adding longevity to your life.   Whether your new diet choice is classic or trendy, looking and feeling better will always be in style.